What is a relational database management system (RDBMS)? 
What are the advantages of a database management system over a file system?

A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. 
Relational databases are based on the relational model, an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables.

Privacy: Limited access means privacy of data. Easy access to data – Database systems manages data in such a way so that the data is easily accessible with fast response times. 
Easy recovery: Since database systems keeps the backup of data, it is easier to do a full recovery of data in case of a failure.

It allows database admins to maintain, control, update data into the database easily. With RDBMS, backing up of data becomes easy. Automation tools of RBDMS automate these tasks.



In a database management system, explain the ACID properties.


A transaction is a single logical unit of work which accesses and possibly modifies the contents of a database. Transactions access data using read and write operations. 
In order to maintain consistency in a database, before and after the transaction, certain properties are followed. These are called ACID properties. 

A transaction in a database system must maintain Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.
Commonly known as ACID properties.
In order to ensure accuracy, completeness, and data integrity.



Explain the concept of Normalization.

Concept: Normalization. Normalization is the process of reducing a complex data structure into its simplest, most stable structure to minimize redundancy.


Explain the many types of query languages used in relational databases. DQL, DML, DCL, and DDL are some examples.

Structured Query Language(SQL) as we all know is the database language by the use of which we can perform certain operations on the existing database and create a database.
SQL uses certain commands like Create, Drop, Insert, etc. to carry out the required tasks. 

These SQL commands are mainly categorized into four categories as: 

DDL – Data Definition Language
DQl – Data Query Language
DML – Data Manipulation Language
DCL – Data Control Language


What is the difference between the main key and a composite key? Give instances of how primary key and composite are used.

While a primary key and a composite key might do the same things, the primary key will consist of one column, where the composite key will consist of two or more columns. 
The relationship between a primary key and a foreign key is quite different.

Create a table with a primary key, a column default value, and a column unique constraint in SQL.
create table customers
(
customerid int not null,
customername varchar(100),
contactname varchar(100),
address varchar(100), 
city varchar(100),
postalcode varchar(10),
country varchar(20),
PRIMARY KEY (customerid)
)




